[Music]
well this is one of the unique
conferences that we have uh every couple
of years and it brings together uh in my
mind the best and most uh influential
people dealing with uh metabolic uh
ketogenic diet approaches to variety of
different neurological and
neurodegenerative diseases so you get a
chance to interact in a very friendly
way uh because this is an emerging field
so there the experts are becoming expert
more and more with each one of these
meetings and what's remarkable to me is
how the meetings have grown uh in size
with the with the interest that seems to
be spreading throughout the world uh on
using uh non-toxic approaches to very uh
complicated and difficult diseases like
like epilepsy uh cancers um uh various
neurodegenerative diseases Alzheimer's
disease I mean this seems to be um
bringing all these people together to
share the common knowledge of how to how
to improve uh this approach to disease
management so in that rate I I don't
think there could be a better meeting
anywhere uh than in this
[Music]
meeting you're beginning to see uh more
and more therapeutic efficacy and
refinement of the procedures the groups
of people that are getting together as
teams are now uh implementing these
Therapies in a far more uniform and
effective way that that uh could only
come from from these kinds of uh of of
interactions so people will go back to
their individual universities or health
clinics and they'll begin to apply these
these new technologies and learn from
what we've have here to make the overall
approach for disease management much
more
[Music]
effective and there's interest in it
because you know it's a non-toxic
approach for cancer management and you
know we focused on brain cancer but but
but um it it as effective as for many
different kinds of cancers um but but um
I think I think people need to know more
about why it's effective and and I think
that's a very important reason because
people say oh this is wonderful how's it
work we don't we don't we know how it
works as a matter of fact we know how it
works better for cancer than we know how
this metabolic approach works for any of
the other diseases it's very clear okay
tumor cells need to ferment and this was
shown by OT warberg many years ago that
is the
defining characteristic of all cancer
cells or nearly all cancer cells they
will ferment all right they use they
ferment two molecules glucose and
glutamine all right so if you target
those molecules and the ketogenic diet
is effective in doing this you can stop
this disease but you have to realize
that this is a a metabolic disease it's
not a genetic disease and unfortunately
the tragedy is that for decades we have
viewed cancer as a genetic disease
spending hundreds of billions if not
trillions of dollars trying to Define
therapies based on the idea that this is
a genetic disease when in fact it is not
it's a mitochondrial metabolic disease
which makes which makes it clear why
we've had no major advances in cancer
nor will we ever have major advances in
cancer until it becomes recognized as a
metabolic disease once you make that
recognition then approaches like
ketogenic diets make perfect sense and
they and you can see how the patients
respond and you can clearly see that
this is an effective tool to manage the
disease is it the only only tool no but
it's certainly a very powerful one and
it moves the whole view of what the
disease is in a different direction but
as long as the field thinks that this is
a gene-based disease then you have this
confusion and lack of progress so this
is one of the things that needs to be
understood then it becomes clear why the
ketogenic diet and these approaches that
people are talking about at this meeting
make so much sense and have so much
potential for therapeutic
efficacy
there are several reasons there's never
one reason I always say there's never
one reason for a tragedy usually there's
multiple con congruent things that all
happen together all right one is the
lack of information the Physicians many
are simply not trained it's not part of
their medical education to know how
metabolic therapies could manage disease
they're just not trained in that so you
have this lack of knowledge all right so
that's a fundamental problem um there's
a a a a Reliance on on procedures that
have been used for decades uh only
because everybody always uses them and
there's been no challenge to that
despite all the evidence that it doesn't
work um and I hate to say it but it's
true there's an economic issue all right
these approaches that that are used here
metabolic approach Es are simply not
capable of generating the the revenues
to run medical schools and Hospital
clinics and this kind of thing the the
revenue generated this is not yet the
the entrepreneur has not yet found a way
to make this approach profitable you
know there's bills to pay how are you
going to run a hospital if you're using
therapies that generate little Revenue
all right this is not compatible with
the business model right this despite
the scientific evidence indicating that
this will be a powerful new approach to
managing the disease no one has yet
figured out how this can be profitable
for the institutions and the individuals
that are applying the therapy now this
sounds terrible but unfortunately we're
dealing not with a scientific issue
we're dealing with a policy issue this
has to be addressed at the highest
levels of government and and the and
medical industry if profitability is the
only way we're going to succeed in
treating patients for whatever disease
then this therapy can never be
considered because it's just simply not
going to fit the business plan so this
is a bigger issue far bigger than any of
the scientific evidence and people can
say well the science isn't there yet we
haven't had clinical trials yet believe
me there's massive evidence to suggest
the success of this approach so the
scientific issue is not not no longer a
viable issue it must be something other
than that and that's what I wrote in my
book these are other issues that go go
on uh to this the scientific issue is
just a few bumps in the road they throw
that out there to make it look like oh
this can't be done because we don't have
all the science believe me we have the
science it's just that people don't want
to look at that science because it gets
them too Disturbed to know we have
something but we can't use it for other
reasons which go beyond science and and
this is the way I view the
[Music]
situation unfortunately many people uh
die
uh from the therapy uh rather than the
disease in fact I dedicated my book to
those individuals the ones that that
that uh that die from the therapies um
that's uh that's an unacceptable tragedy
this is just out you know if you're
going to die you want to die from the
disease not the treatment um the problem
is of course is that uh the treatments
that are used are extremely toxic uh we
we don't know of any any medical
treatment um that we give to people
other than cancer where where where the
treatment involves poisoning and
irradiating people to make them healthy
I mean this stands to as as as nobody
nobody does this except for the cancer
patients for the most part right I mean
you don't see they're given very toxic
drugs and there by the grace of God they
survive the toxicity not on all patients
they respond well to this but but the
issue is is why are we doing that why
are we using toxicity to treat a disease
and and toxicity on top of toxicity
because it's the standard of care um is
there another way that we could achieve
the same endpoint without poisoning and
irradiating the people all right and the
answer is yes but again it comes back to
the policy issues do you really want to
improve the health of the patient or do
you have other issues that you need to
deal with I you can guess the other
issues but these are the thing so it and
and the standards of care are almost
written in stone in Granite that cannot
be erased from every major medical
school in the Civilized world all right
you can go to India you can go to Japan
Germany the United States Great Britain
they all do the same thing and no one
changes that procedure now you go and
tell me what's going on with that why is
that the case you know look look behind
the the smoke in the mirrors and you
might find the answer
[Music]
it has to go back to what the origin of
the disease is and um as ad vorberg had
clearly indicated and as our research
has shown and as emerging evidence is
showing all of the tumor cells seem to
share the same problem they ferment so
we would have to find a cancer that no
longer ferments and if you find a cancer
that doesn't ferment it wouldn't be a
cancer so the answer answer is there's
probably no cancer that we know of that
would be resistant to this metabolic
therapy so this is the and every Cancer
that we've treated whether it's lung
colon breast uh ovarian uh uterine
cancer brain cancer they all seem to
have some level of therapeutic benefit
you know they could be improved better
for some than others but they all seem
to respond in one way or
[Music]
another for clinical trial for the
metabolic therapy like ketogenic diets
and things like this um are hard to do
um they don't follow the the the uh the
structure uh that has been recommended
by Food and Drug Administration and and
and U various medical organizations to
to provide definitive evidence uh that
this would be u a viable therapeutic
approach um and you know we did we did
those trials for epilepsy we followed
and it was it was a tremendously in
inovative approach to to to prove to
people that the the ketogenic diet does
have therapeutic benefit when done in a
standard type of clinical trial and even
after that people still don't so it's
it's like oh I've done everything you've
asked to do and yet um it's still not
well recognized or or or or spoken about
so are we to go through the same thing
with cancer because this is again this
Cuts much deeper than whether it's going
to work in clinical trial ask the people
who are living who took the therapy it
ask them over and over again round them
up and as do you think ask those
survivors do they think a clinical trial
would be helpful to to manage this
disease while they're standing there
they can the lot the survivors who are
healthy can probably address that more
do they do they think they would have
benefited from a clinical trial I don't
think so so this is a situ situation
where even if we would to run the
clinical trial and prove that this would
be working and it probably would if we
designed it in certain ways would it
make it any more used considering the
other issues that are behind the scenes
I don't think so so my view is treat as
many people with this as possible have
the survivors tell others that this is
the way to go and let it roll from there
the people make the decision why should
the medical profession with a less than
St track record in this field be making
decisions on the very Souls of others I
mean it'd be one thing if their track
record was was pristine and these
recommendations would would be
beneficial to many PE most people
they're not so when you have the
establishment dictating the way you
should do something when they themselves
don't have a good track it's like
everything is upside down so I think it
needs to be re-evaluated do we need to
do clinical trials we need to treat some
patients do they survive longer than
than normal are they healthy oh if
they're if you know you're supposed to
live three or four months or two years
and you're out there 5 years I mean what
do you say about this so it's a fluke
well how many flukes do we have to see
before we become convinced that there
might be something important about this
and if they say oh you need a clinical
trial that's there as a block it's
because these kinds of approaches are
much more complicated than whether a
person has the drug or the placebo okay
the the the what the the the the
understanding is much more complicated
than that so we just have to push
forward and the people themselves will
come to say we want ketogen we want
metabolic therapy for cancer or we've
seen we don't want it and if it if you
don't do these things right it's like
anything they may not be as effective if
they're done right so you take small
groups of people you work with the small
groups of people because they're very
labor intensive that's another thing
this is not very simple this is labor
intensive every person is a different
entity it must be treated slightly
different so therefore that confuses
clinical trial who you did something
different from here from that person but
they all end up achieving benefit so
clinical trial setup it has to be
designed in a very different way than
the standard ways of doing this so they
throw out let's do a clinical Tri we
can't believe it until you've done a
clinical trial well those clinical
trials will never happen the way they
think they should happen so again people
have to make a decision do we want to
modify the system in certain ways to
allow us to see whether or not this is
going to be effective once they make
those kinds of decisions I think we're
going to see a lot a lot of uh
Improvement in understanding uh this and
people know now the internet they can
read they can see for themselves if they
don't they can go and talk they can call
somebody up how' you make out using this
yeah I feel great I did okay you know oh
well what are with a complication
they'll they'll all talk there'll be
groups of people they'll be talking they
will not get all their information from
the medical profession because the
medical profession is untrained in this
most of them not all of them some of
them so how are you going to go to a
person who has no knowledge about the
system and ask them about certain
nuances when the person who's already
completed the the the therapy knows more
than the person that's delivering the
other therapy doesn't make any sense
that's
it